Let us start with an intuition pump. 

Suppose that every time A tried to speak to B, a loud noise started playing so that B could not hear A. Is A's right to free speech being violated? B wants to hear what A has to say. 

What can we observe fromp the above setup? If A is trying to speak to B presumably he wants to speak or express himself to B, B cannot hear A, so A cannot meaningfully be said to be speaking to B. So we can say that the noise is blocking A's expression. 

Where does the noise come from? Suppose that C attached large speakers on A such that they are programmed to make the noise whenever A speaks for the purpose of not making A audible. We can say here that the FUNCTION of the noise is to stop A from expressing himself. It seems to me like Mill position on free speech is that the noise violates A's right if it's function is to stop A from speaking. 

I think there is a more recent conception of free speech, usually followed by left-wingers, this theory says that C is violating A's free speech by attaching the speaker, if and only if C is the government. Otherwise A has no right to communicate at all. Instead, A has a right to attempt to communicate. 

Another plausible position is if the EFFECT of the noise is to block A from expressing himself to B. However this is a much harder position to hold. Imagine that A was communicating to B during a thunderstorm, and every time he tried to speak, thunder interrupted it. Here it seems A is entitled so some facility that allows communication with B. Note that if we focus on the effect, we don't need to know the source of the noise. 

Treating speech like an economic good

A has some knowledge that B wants to receive. The knowledge could either be an idea in itself, or it can be A specific expression of an idea. We can imagine that different agents have different skil in expressing an idea or express different components of an idea with differential skill. So it seems intuitive that if A wants to give a speech to present the knowledge



I spent a bit of time re-reading the original Mill essay again last summer and I've been thinking about the function of freedom of speech. I would like to start with a simple example

Speech as an economic good, someone has some asset, and they wish to transfer it to another person. It so happens that the marginal cost of transferring can be very low. 

Now this MAY be about ideas, but it is also about information. 

﻿

As such, sometimes people speak about their position on a certain topic to try and articulate it in their own way. There are people who try do perform this articulation in a functional way, that is, they hope this articulation will achieve something(more or less people will support it if they hear it articulated in this way) but sometimes we also have disinterested articulators, who


Some observations/questions: 1) Clearly you can't express yourself to people who want to hear you 2) looks to me like much of the right/left difference in meaning is the source of that noise. If it is intended versus if it is a state if nature.

I would guess that the right does not entail the right to be heard. Only the right to transfer your message, but this is not super clear to me.

