Vegan notes:

Utilitarianism, Vegetarianism, and Animal Rights by Tom Regan

Summary: Utilitarianism doesn't entail we should treat animals better than we do or veganism. 

Considers three possibilities: 
1) Utilitarianism == Equality of interest

 It is implausible to maintain that the equality of treatment principle is identical with the principle of utility. Utility directs us to bring about the greatest possible balance of non-moral good over non-moral evil; a priori, whether treating beings with equal interests equally would be conducive to realizing the utilitarian goal is an open question. In other words, a priori, it is at least conceivable that systematic violations of the principle of equality of treatment could be optimific. If this is so, then it cannot plausibly be maintained that the two principles are identical. "

My response, this is confusing, equality of interests does not mean we treat equally. It means that we treat each component equally. 

2) Utilitarianism ==> Equality of interest, either logically or empirically

Logically, it does not follow. 

Empirically, it is not argued for, "show, I believe, is that ,the consequences of treating animals as they are at present being treated are worse, all considered, than those that would result if we treated them differently-for example, if they were not raised inten- sively"


3) Equality of interest ==> Utility

"Thus, the equality of interests principle idirects us, as utilitarians, not to attempt to justify treating different beings differently on the grounds that, for example, though A's and B's have a like interest in C, A's interests are more important than B's. Like interests have like importance. That is something utilitarianism must presuppose even to get off the ground."


Rational egoism

Don't treat them badly because we have an emotional interest in them. 

"Thus, if our judgment that we ought not to subject group G to treatment T were founded on rational egoism, we should be prepared to say that it would become morally permissible or even morally obligatory to treat them in these ways if the future"

Kantian:
Treat rational beings as ends in themselves
Don't treat them badly because we are ruining our character and may end up treating rational beings that way.

He says this is not neccesarily a big problem because we may make very sharp distinctions. 

He critiques the "being a member of a species which has these characteristics"

Duties Concerning Islands By MARY MIDGLEY

Question: Can we have duties to ourselves? 
Mill says no: 
"The term duty to oneself, when it means any- thing more than prudence, means self-respect or self-development and for none of these is anyone accountable to his fellow-creatures."

Kant says yes:
"Duties to ourselves are of primary importance and should have pride of place . . . nothing can be expected of a man who dishonours his own person."

Crusoe: What if he had burnt the island before he left? Would that have been good? 

me: It's a mistake to say that this isn't related to humans. If you burn the island 1) you are harming diversity 2) You are condemning somebody in the same situation as Crusoe

G. R. Grice says our intuitions must be abandoned when considering the principle

Social contract theory is the theory that says that we ought to do theory with people as the particles. 

"Social contract theory, however, retains it. On
this physical—or archaeophysical -model, all sig-
nificant moral relations between individuals are
the symmetrical ones expressed by contract. If. on
the other hand, we use a biological or "organic"
model, we can talk also of a variety of asymmetri-
cal relations found within a whole. Leaves relate
not only to other leaves, but to fruit, twigs,
branches, and the whole tree. People appear not
only as individuals, but as members of their
groups, families, tribes, species, ecosystems and
biosphere, and have moral relations, as parts, to
these various wholes"

Hume seems to say that rationality is not enough for rights, but instead equal capacity. 

COncludes that humans do have duties which are to themselves or more general even if it isn't legalistic. 

me: Perhaps this is what private property means, it gives rights not only to people who do respect those external duties but also the duties to themselves. 

Eating animals the nice way by Jeff McMahan

How could benign carnivorism be bad? 

Plausible  views:

1) They believe animal suffering matters but not lives? (seems wrong)
Assymetry in pleasures, they can reach same lows as humans but not the same highs 
Animals have very high discount rates

me: Animals don't have accumulated pleasures like humans do 

me: The lack of ability for animals to accumulate pleasure(beyond learning) means there value is replaceable. A finite amount of space can be used one way or another. 

While the case for benign carnivorism is often stated this way, these claims are misleading. The claim that benign car- nivorism would not be worse for the animals that it would cause to exist is, strictly speaking, trivially true, while the claim that it would be better for them is necessarily false. This is because ‘worse’and ‘better’ are comparative terms, and one element in each implied comparison is never existing at all.

•
They would not have existed if not for the practice of benign carnivorism. Moreover, it is not just that the particu- lar animals would not otherwise have existed; it is that far fewer animals with lives worth living would have existed in the absence of the practice.
•
The animals would be allowed to live a considerable portion of their natural life span before being painlessly killed.
•
Although killing the animals might de- prive them of several years of life, the amount of good they would thereby lose is comparatively slight.

•
The signi½cance of the loss the animals suffer must be discounted for the rela- tive absence of psychological unity in their lives.
•
Those that are painlessly killed are re- placed by new animals with lives that are equally good.
•
The pleasure that people get from eat- ing the animals is in general greater than the pleasure these people would have gotten from eating foods derived entirely from plants.

Emergent effect of action. You cannot

cheating wife

Siblings have sex

eugenics and utils

1) A thief comes and tells you to give you his bike or he will beat you up
2) The thief has friends and they all agree to threaten you and take your bike
3) THe thieves decide they will only take your bike if 75% of them agree to take your bike
4) The thieves include you into the voting process
5) The thieves decide to take your bike if you have another bike. 
6) The thieves decide to give you the option of taking your bike you give them 20 dollars

At what point did this organization become justified? 

Internationalism vs empire? 
WHO: Repeated failures to warn, political scapegoat=correlated actions
UN: Condemns Israel every 3 years


Anybody who abides by principles is a robot. Same for feelings



