There is a profound difference about what post-englignment thinkers make of the word is and what the pre enlightnment thinkers make of it.
Let us take an example MAcintire uses, they allow for reasoning of the type, 

"You are a sea captain" 

"Therefore you ought to do what a sea captain ought to do"

While the post enlightnment thinkers will say that the sea captain should not decide what he does based on his position but based on what is right. This is a logical point, by IS they mean simply to say that it is a descriptive fact about the social relations of society nothing to do with the will. 

The pre-enlightnment thinkers on the other hand would interpret IS in a different way. Is means that you are a sea captain because you have decided to be a sea captain, that is, you have ALREADY decided that you want to act in the way a good sea captain ought to act. In other words, a murderer OUGHT to kill someone if he has already decided that he is a murderer, in other words, the OUGHT describes means to reach his end. 

In other words IF you define the function you want to achieve, then a descriptive fact is about how to achieve that function. 

It is NOT about if that function is a good function. 

You may be a BAD murderer, and it may be judged that being a BAD murderer is better than being a good murderer but nevertheless if somebody decided to be a murderer, we can still judge that they have poorly achieved their aims. 

What the enlightnment has brought is a sort of moral confusion, one which aligns closer to christian ethics than classical greek and roman morals. The sense of objective morals has a different meaning to romans, the most effective way to achieve a certain goal is the BETTER goal, there is no ambiguity about it because the goal has already been defined. 

In other words OUGHT in the classical case is morally neutral, while in the christian and enlighnment version of oughts don't have sucha quible. 

Moral realism in this sense is NOT that there exists some kind of invisible moral law but that PEOPLE have an inherent purpose. In other words, it doesn't matter what your perspective is about what you ought to do. Teleonmy

The poison of enlightnment language

Probably the most important change from the enlighnment philosophical push is the re-definition of the word "is". In the past when we described a certain state of affairs, we used the word IS to describe ways in which we can achieve whatever it is we want to achieve. For instance if we said that George was a sea captain, we mean that George has decided that he 

Let's start with an example, suppose I pronounce

"You are a sea captain" 

"Therefore you ought to do what a sea captain ought to do"

In virtue ethics, their are virtues which are universal because they help you achieve your goals better. In other words, it doesn't tell you what your goals should be but it does tell 




Libertarian and COVID

Much how in common law, there is no "share" of the crime for murder, but only categories(if more people took part, doesn't reduce their sentence). It seems like the equivalent is: "take the total # of deaths in the world and assign it to every business that COULD have spread it"

Give what a try? You want to let a judge decide on a standard, where if the standard is too lax the result could be millions of deaths? Maybe the judge simply thinks the temporary money off of a lax law is worth it to him. 
missing: Irreversibility.Util: get rich or die trying/1

Markets are great when trial and error can take place. Information can be revealed, and learning can occur. But it IS important that the effects of errors be LOCAL. As far as I am aware, there is no counter-argument to this. 

For each business, take the #of deaths that could be attributable to it and make it pay for that cost. 




Perhaps more importantly the general convergence problem. Suppose there is a negative shock that does X damage every couple of hundred years. Of course being a probabilistic process it is possible that it occurs two years straight. Now suppose that people try to insure against this risk. The insurance company charges some premium which is actuarily fair in the long run(though it is known convergence takes a VERY long time). Due to the magnitude of X, the premium has to be pretty high, say it is 100. Of course if the agents are bayesians, or what I think is known as "naive" bayesians. Then they will simply update their proability distribution 


Suppose that to do this, before they have children, they all agree that their legal order, will make this illegal. 









Kidneys and gladiators

Would it be legal to have gladiators in a free market legal system? That is a fight to the death but without slaves, two freely consenting slaves. The problem is of course, those gladiators have family, and even though the gladiator himself may think it is worth it, that is they have the 50cent utility function:"get rich or die trying". The problem is of course that both these gangsters have a family or a neighborhood and they don't want to live in a community that allows this transaction. But clearly these members of the community may be willing to stop this transactions so they may have their own willingness to pay to prevent this transaction taking place. Unfortunatly, there are MANY more fans of gladiators than their are members of the community which want to prevent the match. 

What route is open to the community? If everyone has the same preferences, a sort of Rawlsian solution would be to make sure that the legality of illegality of the gladiator match was considered BEFORE we know the identity of the gladiators. However this kind of thing is not easy to pull off, Indeed once we know the identitiy of the gladiators, suddenly the past agreement doesn't matter anymore. Was there perhaps a moment in the gladiators lives where they signed a contract that they agreed would not allow them to fight this match? 

The Peters/Adamou solution would be simply to say that their utility function actually comes from the environment. Even though it could occur in the short run, this preference profile could not exist as long as we have evolution between preference profiles(the growth rate is lower) AND a stochastic process whose optimal growth solution is risk averese. 

This isn't however much help to the parent is worried about his kid at this moment who 

