
Socrates: Very well what do you wish to discuss today? 
Academic: Discuss? Well I am more interested in venting my thoughts. Would you care to listen?
Socrates: I can listen, but I cannot only listen. 
Academic: So there is this reactionary movement that refuses to listen to the experts, even though they study the topics they talk about and more informed. 
Socrates: I don't quite understand 

Socrates: Hm okay and why should one listen to experts? 
A: Because they know more. 
S: So are the experts always right? 
A: Of course not Socrates, nobody is always right. Experts just know better so they make the right decisions more often. 
S: So knowing more leads one to make the right decision more often? 
A: Of course Socrates


Academic: I think we should listen to experts.
Socrates: That is indeed an interesting proposition, let us explore. What is an expert?
A: An expert is somebody knows better non-experts. 
S: And who is an expert? 
A: Well those people who know best.
S: Yes but to listen to experts we must know who knows best, how do we know who knows best?
A: Well an expert knows what the best decision is. 
S: And how do we know what the best decision is? 
A: The best decision leads to the best consequence. 
S: But what is the best consequence?
A: Well the expert knows that. 
S: This doesn't seem to get us any closer to identifying who the experts are. Suppose we have some person, Larry, he studies he spends his whole life studying pandemics. However, when the decisive moment comes, he makes the wrong call. Is this person an expert?
A: Well no, an expert makes the right decisions, at least on average. 
S: I don't find that particularly helpful. You seem to want to evaluate expertise based on the results. Yet the results come after the decision. So how do we find out who the expert is? If an illiterate person was right about something and the literates were not, would this mean the illiterate is an expert? 
A: Well no expertise can only come from careful study. 
S: I agree with you, and I think it is not helpful to define experise after the fact. We must define it before the decision.
A: Very well then, an expert is the person who studies a topic. 
S: Good then, that seems more reasonable. However notice that in this definition, an expert may NOT know the best decision. Indeed it may be that the literature on this topic is of no real value and the expert simply has knowledge with no predictive capability. 
A: Hm... and? 
S: Well an expert can be wrong, and may even consistently make worst decisions than the illiterate. 
A: Absurd Socrates! I agree with your reasoning but the conclusion is untenable! 
S: It is my role to give you reasonable arguments, it is your role to temper yourself such that reasonable arguments can move you. My work is done, yours is not. 


A: Well Socrates, an expert may make some wrong decisions but on average his decisions are better. 
S: But what if listening to this studious person doesn't cause the things we to cause?
A: Then this person isn't really an expert. 
S: I'm confused, are you saying that to be an expert you must make the right decisions? 
A: Well yes. 
S: So if my illiterate grandma was warning me not to do X and she was right to do so, she is an expert?
A: Oh Socrates don't be so obtuse, your grandma has no technical expertise. 
S: But I thought you said expertise is about making the right decisions. 
A: It is, but the ones who make the right decisions are those who have the most knowledge. 
S: This is an odd definition you are playing with. It seems like you are saying an expert is always right by definition. But we can't know who is going to make the right decision until after the decision is made! 
A: 