Patents and copyright are justified with a question, "Why would people innovate if they didn't expect to gain?". At first glance this argument sounds like common sense, however, if we dig a little we quickly understand that this is "lawyer logic". That is, it is a story which conveniently has lawyers legitimacy reinforced. 

Economics teaches us to think in a rather different manner. The narrow interest versus broad interests, specifically for two sides that have equivalent interests, the side that has the narrowest base has an advantage. It is simply easier to coordinate the interests. The lawyers are an example of such a narrow coalition. So if you think the question is sufficient to justify patents, the narrow interests are winning. 

A more neutral framing can be presented, one such formulation could be "do most innovations occur faster with or without patents?". Note that this question doesn't have the conclusion baked into it. An infamous paper shows that the more innovation is sequential, the more likely it is that patents will slow down it down. The logic here is really quite simple, it may be true that the next innovation will be created faster with patents, but the innovation that improves on this innovation may be created slower because there is a decreased incentive to work on a patented invention. 

This is the reason the sequentiality of innovation is such a contested territory. If one can show that innovation is a highly sequential phenomenon, then the lawyer logic is under attack. Matt Ridley's book is an important contribution to this debate. In "How Innovation works", Ridley isn't interested in the theory of the debate, he wants to stick to what is important, the innovations.

His book reads like a series of short stories, indeed hundreds, about many different innovations. He does the impossible task of trying to classify them, in the begining, he classifies them by industry(transport, health, food, energy) but by chapter 5 this approach is already limiting it's limit, he then has a chapter on pre-historic innovations and low technology innovations. 

Ridley doesn't just focus on debunking the lawyer argument through the sequentiality argument. A running theme throughout the book is that people seem to motivated by creating in itself, indeed the academics are usually the exception with their litigating behavior. The problem itself is academic, the working moto when it comes to evaluating innovation is "if I can't measure it, it isn't there".

He makes a rather sharp distinction early on, invention is not innovation. The person who brings the product to market and changes the norm is the innovator. According to Ridely, if patents were always given to innovations then they would be less harmful, the problem is that an innovation is defiend ex-post, it isn't possible to to know which invention will turn out to be an innovation. As such most patents are given on things that never had any potential to generate revenue. An invention may or not turn out to be ready for the market, if it isn't ready, then protecting it can only slow down the invention that will be able to penetrate the market. 

Except for the sequentiality and the motivation of entrepreneurs, an importat reason to undermine the lawyers argument for patents is the pushing of inferior products. In a world without patents firms have an incentive to search the best possible product for any given end and then attempt to sell that product. In a world with patents, firms have an incentive to sell the products that are protected. A safer more effective drug will not be pushed over a less effective and more dangerous one because they have property rights over the latter and not the former. 

It is not until page 240 that Ridley takes a break from his short stories to try and synthesize what has been learnt so far. He also briefly stops by the economic literature to take a few digs at Mariana Mazzucato(who thinks the government is the important source of innovativde activity). Perhaps the most fun chapter in the whole books are kept for the ending "fake" innovations. With some absolutely ridiculous stories, such as Elizabeth Holmes faking her way into becoming a billionaire and Obama's ambasador of global entrepreneurship. 

The elephant in the room is how come patents are so pervasive? While part of the story is the narrow versus wide interests. An even bigger part of the story is the united states forcing it upon others. Ridley is nevertheless mostly right and on the way to justify himself, we hear learn about why coffee is subsversive to the public good, European regulations being dictated by German manufacturers of vaccum cleaners and how much Ridley's ancestors were paying in patent fees.

The book isn't perfect there are some important areas that are not expounded upon. Though this message is contained within the book, it is never quite articulated in this way, a significant amount of innovation is created in households, not corporate headquarters. He also is rather too cautious, he correctly claims there is no evidence that patents increase the rate of innovative drugs but does not advocate for the abolition of the patent system. The inverse problem occurs when he is discussing Gennetically Modified Crops, he does not sufficiently explore the problems raised which are both about the combinatorial nature of disease and about the industry structure which has the potential to increase the cost of errors. 

Nevertheless, Matt Ridley makes a powerful contribution to the debate by sticking to the stories. Innovation is a bottom up process, no single mind is guiding it. Innovation can only emerge when the cost of errors is low and so Matt Ridley is on the correct side of the issue whhen he says "evolution" not "revolution". 






A portion which stuck with me is "evolution" not "revolution". Innovation is a bottom up process with constant tinkering to improve a design, specifically evolution is about low cost errors. 





What is rather interesting about the group of innovators being described is how diverse they are.



Ridley has a valuable contribution to make in "How Innovation works".  




















%A whole industry around this theory exists. It is not an exageration to say that the majority of what is costly to the consumer in say, healthcare, is the intellectual property aspect. Indeed, the main reason why socialized health systems over-perform is that government can better negotiate with these patent holders. 

Take an example, suppose that if more people are looking, innovation is faster, suppose also that rewards do increase the incentive to 
innovate. 

%For instance suppose that the next project A will be invented within one year if the winner gets a patent, but within 2 years if the winner gets no patent. This occurs because the prospect of the patent causes many people to invest to try and win the race.  After project A exists, the follow up project, A+, will be invented, however, to profit off of A+, you need to negotiate with the holder of patent A. In this case, the main person who has an incentive to invent A+, is the holder of A. However, since now, fewer people are looking, the follow up invention may take 5 years to be invented, this is true for A++ as well. If on the other hand we had a no patent paradigm, we would see the first invention slower, but the follow up inventions faster. It doesn't take a complicated model to see that in the long run, the no patent paradigm is more important. 


However as Maskin and Bessen show in their infamous paper




 


 




Matt Ridley sets out on an ambitious task. He aims to show that much of the story we have in mind about how innovation emerges is, in fact, a fiction. Much like how history is haunted by the "great man" narrative, the same is true for the history of innovation. We hold up certain idols as heroes who came in and bulldozed through the norm. 

The reality is quite different, at any give time there seemed to be dozens of people working on the same thing. It is a peculiar thing, how come all these people were (mostly) independently working on so such inventions at the same time? Perhaps the technological environment is the inspiration for the next wave of innovations, perhaps there is a cultural norm that emerges. 

What I found particularly interesting is the background of a lot of these innovators. While wealth does seem to be a factor, university education does not. Indeed, the emphasis seems to be a sort of family culture, where the children are heavily encouraged to create. 

The image of the lone rational inventor creating a breakthrough and becoming rich is constantly under attack here. Indeed, much like today, there existed strong pressure to abandon projects that were no longer deemed popular. Shale gas tycoon (name here) is but one, for no particular reason, with no particular scientific backing, indeed, the main component seemed to be an excess of stubborness. 

Ridley decides to split his chapters up into Energy. In the energy portion he explores the origins of shale, nuclear, the steam engine and the light bulb. Ridley is especially convincing in his defence of nuclear, being a partisan of liquid thorium reactors, while Nuclear initially was prone to trial and error experimentation, regulations have made experimentation too costly, a few errors are sufficient to bankrupt most investors. 

A portion which stuck with me is "evolution" not "revolution". Innovation is a bottom up process with constant tinkering to improve a design, specifically evolution is about low cost errors. 

Patents themselves are often difficult, mostly because it is easy for a bureacrat to claim that an idea has the properties required to receive a patent but if the patent does not generate revenues it is more likely to slow innovation. The reasoning behind this is simple, we can imagine a technology that is gradually being developed but it is difficult to know when it has been sufficiently developed to be an "innovation", that is "market ready". The effect of granting a patent on an innovation which isn't patent ready is to slow down it's development by limiting the paths by which this technology can be developed.   

Ridley's view is sprinkled throuhout the text, Savery's  "undeserving heirs" but not clearly articulated. 

For the Steam engine he identifies(Denis Papin, Thomas Savery and Thomas Newcommen ), the first two developing the prototypes and third attempting to apply the prototype, but it was ultimatly not efficient enough(it a steam engine the size of a house). Though the basic idea, Ridely claims is much older, perhaps with origins in the Greek and Romans; Savery would get a patent, which forced Newcomen to partner with Savery's heirs for many years. Of the Trio, Newcommen, of humble origins, was in a sense, forced to cooperate with the noble heirs of Savery. Indeed, the French in their usual zeal to give credit to the academy tried to claim that Newcommen must have copied the other two, none of this has been corroborated.

Ridley has his own link to the story, Newcommen's partner was hired by Ridley's ancestor, Nicholas Ridley to build a few of his engines, indeed the Ridley's paid an initial Royalty fee of 1000 in 1715-16 for the first engine then paid 400 per year in perpetuitry to the Savery estate. 

Watt joint the story half a century later, 1763 and only unveiled his patented version in 1776. Watt's engine had a rather obvious inefficiency, if it used a crank and flywheel method a more efficient engine would have emerged but due to another patent, by James Pickard(who himself had gotten the idea from an obscure employee of his), Watt invented an alternative known as "sun and planets" to get around this. Ridely here repeats the tale popularized by David K levine in "Against intellectual monopoly", where Watt's trigger happy attitude towards sueing all other inventors who tried to make improvements, though he doesn't repeat the claim that Watt's patent may have slowed the industrial revolution by decades. 

Ridley is equally a myth buster with the "thomas edison invented the light bulb" mantra, with 21 independent inventors who can lay claim to the invention. Indeed Swan's patent forced Edison to go into business with him   

Papin, studies medicine before being chased out of france by the anti-protestant movement at the time. 

Health, a far cry from the idea that modern medicine was the creation of our scientists, was met by resistance at every turn by the scientific community. A woman 'Lady Mary Wortley' that was met with derision about anecdotal her approach, similar messengers from Africa came who were attacked their suggested solutions. Or when Dr Leal had the idea of dripping chlorine to clean the water, the scientific community, including MIT doctor Thomas Drown. 

Or Dr John Snow arguing against the rest of the scientific community that Cholera was not due to the airborn theory of the time, "Miasma" but due to water solution. 

Electronic cigarettes attacked by scientific establishment as unhealthy and harmful to the public health. The European Commision also attempted to kill the industry by demanding they be regulated as medicinal products. 

Pearl Kendrick and Grace Eldering, developed an effective vaccine for Whooping cough, saving thousands, without ever trying to create a patent or protect their invention. 

A similar story happened in the UK Dr Houston dropped chlorine in the water reserve which had the effect of reducing typhoid infections, Matt Ridley, in an almost childish manner tries goes back to the question "But where did this one get this idea?" It seems the answer can always keep going

Langley the aviation scientist relied on government grants, the Wright brothers were uneducated church boys. They were dismissed by the Engineer magazine and the US war department and Smithsonian tried to give credit for the invention to Langley