There is this idea that a business IS its assets and its people. In such a time of riots you often hear such arguments as "It is just stuff" or "it is insured" or even such grant arguments as "It isn't an organization because it is decentralized".

Is the value or say the intrinsic productivity of a business to be found in some function of it's assets and its labor? 

If you go find the manager of your nearest retail store this owner will tell you that most of the difficulty in running retail stores is not the assets themselves but the arrangement of the assets. 

Examples of such tricks include: 
1) Which items to put by the window.
2) Which items to put on which shelf. 
3) How quality must vary in the verticality of the shelf. 

Note that these kinds of choices produce different combinatorial effect. For instance, where should a customer be able to find the window item? If the item is placed at the deep end of the store, this will mean the customer is more likely to notice other items and buy more things, but it may also cause a tiredness in the customer causing them to not buy anything at all. The right choices are highly context dependent. 

It may be that it is best to have a pasta range, OR it may be best to have a BIO range where a store includes bio pasta/bread/sauces all in one short aisle. This is heavily dependant on the the customers. 

Notice that the business owner can ONLY KNOW the profit he earns. He cannot know WHY a certain arangement work or does not work, he might not even be able to draw causality from a certain arrangement to his profit margin, perhaps external forces are controlling the profit margins. 

So a store with ONE arrangement may be worth ten times the worth of another store. What exactly is this value? Let us imagine that stores randomly place items around the store. Some arrangements have higher returns than other arrangements, in other words, merely as a product of chance, one store has more value added than another. The value is not to be found in the assets or in its workforce. 

Of course even if the arrangement is the same there may be OTHER reasons why the store cannot add value in the same way it did before it was burnt down. For instance, many people have something called "routines", what behavioralists like Kahneman call system 1 thinking. Agents have a certain routine, whenver their stomach gives them a signal, they automatically go to the store at the end of aisle 7 to pick a certain item. Indeed many people KNOW there is a superior product out there but they are so comfortable with their current setup they don't feel the need to search and improve it. However if the routine is broken, they are forced to go into a search and will inevitably not return. 

It is also difficult to communicate to an economist that a cafe has a "spot" for each member. Indeed, groups of old men group at these cafes and stay there all day, a cultural phenomenon, it is difficult to coordinate such an activity, the culture gradually emerges. A temporary pause in this routine could create a newer culture, much like how the death of a single individual can collapse the glue that brings it all together. 

Austrians economists have a consumer centered definition of value so I assume they are aware of this. On the other... I wonder how a Marxist would justify the above setup. 