I think I'm the only person I know who is pro-property rights but against Lockean appropriation. Work is a weirdly east european criterion for giving people territorial rights. Hayek actually has the answer, the criteria should be "PLANNING" /1

Imagine you go into a forest, you like the way it looks, so you decide to just let it be and go once a year, camping there. Well you technically haven't mixed your labor with it... but you DID PLAN to use it. I think this is sufficient to give property rights. /2

Of course the property right doesn't have to be as strong as a regular property right. If A planned to use it during summer and B planned to use it during Winter, then they should both get their respective property rights. /3

The idea of the property right is of course, that somebody else can't come and foil your plan, you have a right to your plan.

\section{Intro} 

This paper attempts to present an alternative theory of appropriation which solves the main issues presented with Lockean appropriation. 

The purpose of this article is to a present a culturally neutral method of appropriation. The theory simultanously allows for a much wider application of the appropriation principle and solves ethically problematic issues that are present within the criteria that Locke presents. Specifically, the method presented purports to be Culturally neutral. 

A method of appropriation which is culturally neutral, and allows for a much wider scope for appropriation. 

Ever since Nozicks seminal book, political philosophy has been aiming to correct what is seen as Nozick's most fragile part. Nozick's theory is powerful in that the theory allows is holistic, that is, it is a grand theory of justice, it is coherent with a wide variety of methods. That is, theory requires a method of appropriation which is just, regardless of what the specific method is. The method of appropriation he proposed, what is widely known and critisized and the "Lockean proviso" has severe limitations. 

The structure of the article will be as follows: We will briefly discuss why the Lockean proviso fails the test of cultural neutrality. 

Locke in his theory of appropriating property had the following position. The state should recognize somebody as having a property right over an object if they mix their labor to imrove that object in some way. Now there are a number of issues with this, the definition of "improve", the SCOPE the property right. For instance if I plant a small seed somewhere do I also own something 10m away from the seed, even though I technically did not adjust it? 

If so it seems like this is inherently tilting things in FAVOR of those who can appropriate en masse, for instance somebody with a tractor can just terraform mass amounts of lands and this would meet the appropriation criteria. 

Worse yet, it is notoriously known that Locke himself didn't think indigenous tribes should have property rights over their territory. Clearly any property right rule should be indifferent between people or groups of people. 

So what is the rule that CAN allow for appropriation while remaining neutral? 

\section{The problem of a culturally neutral theory of appropritation appropriation}

The problem of a culturally neutral method of appropriation is a notion which often goes ignored. To illustrate the idea of a culturally/preference neutral notion we give a brief example. 

Suppose agent A and agent B are attempting to create a theory of just appropriation, but instead of being completely blind in the veil of ignorance sense, they have some information about their own tendencies or preferences. Specifically, suppose that A is a lazy meditaranean and B is has a strong dose of that Legendary protestant work ethic. 

What would the two agents agree to as a method of appropriation? Would they agree to a Lockean concept? Becaue A is lazy, he doesn't want to tire himself out, instead he just likes to take walks on the island and pick the fruit that naturally grows there. A likes to pick fruits from trees, while B likes to cut trees down and plant crops. Now it seems like B would earn property rights over the territory he destroys and re-creates but A would gain no such rights. 

This is a serious issue, indeed suppose that B gradually becomes more efficient and is able to gradually appropriate all of the land, such that A no longer has any claim to any assets. Perhaps B also values diversity in agriculture so he gradually plants different vegetables over the whole island. 

Take a second situation, suppose now that both our agents have a strong protestant work ethic. However as it so happens agent A, has a large tractor while Agent B has preference for working with his hands. Suppose that once again they agree to the Lockean method of appropriation, it is clear that the agent with the tractor will appropriate the 99% of the land, whilst the other agent will appropriate but a small fraction. Why would the smaller agent agree to such a deal? 

The idea is NOT that the two should have an equal amount of land approrpriated but that both cultures can survive. Indeed if a rule causes one persons preferences to disapear and another ones to thrive, this is not a culturally neutral rule. 

Indeed, if an agent intends for a piece of land to be used by his offspring, this means that another Agent cannot simply come and appropriate it before the offspring is old enough and then limit what the offspring can do. 

Give tractor example, explain how it favors some cultures over others. It ignores some actions but accepts others, one cannot help that the criteria for ownership is inherently biased in favor of the actions which are his own cultural heritage. 

but instead emerges from a process of deliberation  which aims to be neutral AMONG humans.

\section{The problematic Locke}

This section aims to present the problematic context from which Locke emerged and aims to show that his theory is hopelessly tainted by hisown culture. 

More precisely, the theory does not emerge from a process of deliberation which aims to justify ones own culture, indeed Locke was notorious for his silence on the issue of slavery and unapologetic push for the westernization of native lands. 

The limitation of lockean appropriation. 

\section{Hayekian appropriation}
This section presents a method of appropriation which is culturally neutral. 

More precisely the rule is about intent and planning. That is if agent A plans or intends on using a physical object that no other person intended on using this is sufficient for giving a property right. 

Nor does the intent have to be explicit, if a certain tribe has gone up the mountain for a ritual for thousands of years, this can be taken as cultural intent to use the mountain and they should be given those property rights. 


Like Nozicks vision of the locean proviso, this vision is radical, indeed, it entails simultanously that a large majority of current property rights are illegitimate. 

However this intent to use does not give the timeless application of property rights that Lockes theory gives. While the right CAN be permanent it does not have to be active all the time. 

Indeed this makes for a less radical vision of property, for an appropriation to occur, it must simply be that OTHER's plans for the physical asset are not diverted. 

Suppose that a country house of family B is used once a year and it stays unused for the rest of the year. This means that the use of this asset is open for appropriation. However the criteria for appropriation must NOT affect the other use of the asset. 

For instance suppose B want to use an asset A plans to use. Then B must make sure that A's plans are not thwarted, in other words, if B uses the asset and damages it, he is liable to A. So the use of the asset WITHOUT permission is granted as long as B compensates A for the damage that is caused. In other words if A plans to use the asset at time 2, A must be indifferent as to whether B had already used it before. 

The ideolization is deliberate, of course the logistics may make this impracticable. If for instance the asset in question is very fragile, then it cannot be reasonably expected that B can do a follow up appropriation. If A's cultural practice is to PICK a banana from the tree then B can pick another Banana as long as there is a Banana left. If on the other hand A's cultural practice is to pick a single Banana from a COMLPLETE tree then it isn't justified. In other words, strong cultural knowledge is required. 

Indeed unless the culture makes it EXPLICIT that they picking a single Banana is the culture, the LAW should assume that the plan is to pick from a COMPLETE tree. Note however that IF it were ever made explicit, then the law can afford to be more surgical. 

The planning criteria is true Not only for temporal reasons, but state contingent rights as well. For instance it could be that a family a chosen a nice spot that they want to go sun tan on IF the weather is nice. Then they have the right UNDER that circumstance, but this right can be exchanged. 

Of course, as to appropriating thing unders ignorance. That is suppose you see a bench and You do NOT know if anybody has created plans for this bench. What can you appropriate? One can make plans but your OWN plans will be contingent on somebody elses not having plans in the specific state. That is suppose somebody plans to use this at state A but not on state B, and you plan to use it for both state A and B, then one could say that you believe you appropriated for state B and A but you only appropriated for state A. 

Then appropriation carries the risk that somebody else has already appropriated this parcel. 



Hayek who was notiorious for his defense of prices for their function that it enables agents to create mutually compatible plans, using this is the line of inspiration, I propose a similar method but for appropriation. Agents should have property rights over physical resources which they have PLANNED to use. 

Let us take an example: suppose that an agent wants to go camping in a forest that already exists once a year. Now suppose the agent has planned to go camping there on day 2. Nobody else was planning to use the property on day 2. Perhaps somebody else is interested in going to the spot for a honeymoon on day 2, but the first agent has already made plans, but he may be willing to sell these plans so that the other agent realize his own plans. 

Notice here that the property right that is granted is time and context specific. If for instance the family was planning to go camping and the function of the camping was to be in a rich and natural environment then the property rights on day 1 are bounded that whatever appropriation occurs on day 1 must make sure that it does not violate the property right of the family. 

\section{Superiority of Hayekian vs Lockean appropriation}

In other words, if something is in USE, it cannot be appropriated. Similary if something has been discovered already, it also is not in use. Suppose that the family planned to use the asset at time t. Somebody discovered that the asset has ANOTHER more valuable use and wants to dig it out. What must be done? 


\section{Objection to Hayekian appropriation and replies}
Ambiguous planning

\section{Consluson}

This is a theory which aims to bring our understanding of property rights closer to the inituitive notions which everyday people have. For instance, the data of children shouting shutgun while getting in the car. 

